feat(aps): tutorial mlx on apple silicon (#2539)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/mlx-array-framework-apple-silicon/index.mdx

categories:
  - compute
tags: apple-silicon mlx framework apple mac-mini
dates:
  validation: 2023-12-15
  posted: 2023-12-15
---

MLX, an array framework designed for effective and versatile machine learning on Apple silicon, was developed by Apple’s machine learning research team.
MLX is developed by machine learning researchers focusing on catering to their peers, emphasizing a balance between user-friendliness and efficiency in model training and deployment. The framework boasts a deliberately straightforward design that facilitates seamless extension and enhancement by researchers, fostering the swift exploration of innovative ideas.
Regarding APIs, the Python interface of MLX closely emulates NumPy, incorporating a few distinctive features. MLX also offers a robust C++ API designed closely with its Python counterpart.
Taking inspiration from frameworks such as PyTorch, Jax, and ArrayFire, MLX takes a unique path with its unified memory model. Within MLX, arrays reside in shared memory, allowing operations on MLX arrays across diverse supported devices without data copies. This approach marks a notable distinction from other frameworks.

Key features of MLX include:

> * **Familiar APIs:** MLX provides a Python API closely aligned with NumPy, complemented by a comprehensive C++ API closely mirroring its Python counterpart. Higher-level packages like `mlx.nn` and `mlx.optimizers` closely follow PyTorch, simplifying the construction of intricate models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Familiar APIs:** MLX provides a Python API closely aligned with NumPy, complemented by a comprehensive C++ API mirroring its Python counterpart. Higher-level packages like `mlx.nn` and `mlx.optimizers` closely follow PyTorch, simplifying the construction of intricate models.
```

* **Composable Function Transformations:** MLX facilitates composable function transformations, supporting automatic differentiation, vectorization, and optimization of computation graphs.
* **Lazy Computation:** Within MLX, computations adopt a lazy approach, only materializing arrays when needed.
* **Dynamic Graph Construction:** MLX dynamically constructs computation graphs, allowing for shape changes in function arguments without triggering sluggish compilations. Debugging remains straightforward and intuitive.
* **Multi-device Support:** MLX operations are versatile and capable of running on supported devices, currently spanning the CPU and GPU.
* **Unified Memory:** A standout distinction lies in MLX's unified memory model. Arrays within MLX reside in shared memory, permitting operations on arrays across different device types without necessitating data transfers.

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)

>   - You have [created an Mac mini](/bare-metal/apple-silicon/how-to/create-mac-mini/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You have [created a Mac mini](/bare-metal/apple-silicon/how-to/create-mac-mini/)
```

>   - You have [created an Mac mini](/bare-metal/apple-silicon/how-to/create-mac-mini/)

Reviewer 2: `a Mac mini`

  - You have native Python >= 3.8 installed on the Mac (preinstalled by default)
</Message> 

<Message type="note">

>     MLX is only available on devices running MacOS >= 13.3 It is highly recommended to use MacOS 14 (Sonoma) or later.

Reviewer 2: We don't yet preinstall Sonoma by default, this may make the user experience a little complicated, what do you think?

Author: I think we can remove this sentence then

Author: ```suggestion
    MLX is only available on devices running MacOS >= 13.3.
```

```

### Function and graph transformations

MLX supports standard function transformations like [`grad`](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/python/_autosummary/mlx.core.grad.html#mlx.core.grad) and [`vmap`](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/python/_autosummary/mlx.core.vmap.html#mlx.core.vmap), allowing arbitrary compositions. For instance, ``grad(vmap(grad(fn)))`` is a valid composition.

```python
x = mx.array(0.0)
print(mx.sin(x))
# Output: array(0, dtype=float32)
print(mx.grad(mx.sin)(x))
# Output: array(1, dtype=float32)
print(mx.grad(mx.grad(mx.sin))(x))
# Output: array(-0, dtype=float32)
```

Other gradient transformations include [`vjp`](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/python/_autosummary/mlx.core.vjp.html#mlx.core.vjp) for vector-Jacobian products and [`jvp`](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/python/_autosummary/mlx.core.jvp.html#mlx.core.jvp) for Jacobian-vector products.

Efficiently compute both a function's output and gradient with respect to the function's input using [`value_and_grad`](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/python/_autosummary/mlx.core.value_and_grad.html#mlx.core.value_and_grad).

## Going further

> - For a complete documentation about MLX, refer to the [official MLX documenation](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For comprehensive MLX documentation, refer to the [official MLX documenation](https://ml-explore.github.io/mlx/build/html/index.html).
```
